# MidtermWork

# Open World Assumption vs Closed World Assumption
## Details
* Category: [Methods](../categories/Methods.md)
* Module Prerequisites: [Introduction to Logic](../modules/Introduction_to_Logic.md)
* Audience: [Any](../audiences/Any.md)
* Level: [Beginner](../levels/Beginner.md)

## Content
* We need to add to this.
* We each need to add about 400 words to this section. 

#### Open Word Assumption 
* Erin is doing this section.

#### Closed Word Assumption 
* Antrea is doing this section.

#### Comparison    
One of the key benefits of using an Open World Assumption (OWA) is that the process of making an ontology based upon the Open World Assumption (OWA) is what could be called a process of elimination.<br> 
The ontology would be empty at the start and become more restricted and narrow by stating what is not possible. Thus, there exists the possibility of adding further individuals if it is not explicitly excluded [1]. 
This would be the better type of assumption to use in the case where one does not or can not know everything.<br>         
In comparison, the use of a Closed World Assumption (CWA) creates an ontology through the process of inclusion of knowledge and individuals.<br> 
The ontology would be assumed to contain all known individuals and facts. Thus, a new individual that was not explicitly included before is assumed to not exist and any other "facts" are assumed to be false.<br>    
Another way to phrase this would be to say that in the Closed World Assumption (CWA) the only true statements are the statements directly given in the database and those statements implied by the database and that everything else is assumed to be false [2].<br> 
One of the issues that is seen in the Open World Assumption (OWA) that can be fixed by using the Closed World Assumption (CWA) is a "lack of definitive answers" which causes uncertainty with queries needing a Boolean answer. An example of a field with "queries which require a definite yes/no answer" is that of robotics. Since robots are not well skilled in processing incomplete or ambiguous information and data they tend to prefer the Closed World Assumption (CWA) [1].<br>
Another problem with the Open World Assumption (OWA) occurs "when handling incomplete service descriptions" for the matchmaking process [1].<br>   
However, it is possible to simulate some behavior of the Closed World Assumption (CWA) in an Open World Assumption (OWA) based ontology. One way that this could be done is to explicitly state that two classes are disjoint. Meaning that the intersection of the two classes is an empty class. Thus, excluding all individuals that would have an is-a relation to both classes from the ontology and requiring that all included individuals have an is-a relation with exactly one or neither of the classes.<br>
Another way to make a similar simulated behavior would be with the negation of statements. Such as "isFriendOf" and the negation would be "isNotFriendOf" to allow the explicit statement that one person does not consider the other to be their friend.<br> 
An example of when the use of the Open World Assumption (OWA) with explicit negative data is preferred in a database is within the medical field. If a doctor is checking the database to see if the patient has diabetes, then it would be better to get an "answer generated by the
system using definite information" rather than the negative answer determined by a system using the Closed World Assumption (CWA) [2].

## Related KGC Media
* Workshop Example
* Tutorial Example

## External Media References
* We need to make this section. 
* We need to find at least 1 video to add to this section. Brownie points if it is a part of lecture.  

## References
* We need to put any references we used in this section. 
* They are numbered, start with 1. List them in order of use in the above sections. IEEE style. Include DOI, where available.<br> 
[1] A. Elçi, B. Rahnama and S. Kamran, "Defining a Strategy to Select Either of Closed/Open World Assumptions on Semantic Robots," 2008 32nd Annual IEEE International Computer Software and Applications Conference, Turku, Finland, 2008, pp. 417-423, doi: 10.1109/COMPSAC.2008.182.<br>
[2] N. Viswanath and R. Sunderraman, "Handling disjunctions in open world relational databases," NAFIPS 2008 - 2008 Annual Meeting of the North American Fuzzy Information Processing Society, New York, NY, USA, 2008, pp. 1-6, doi: 10.1109/NAFIPS.2008.4531248.

## Contributors
* Antrea Christou
* Erin Rogers
* Cogan Shimizu
* Sydney Woods





 








